All right so
time we're gonna talk about dark mode,
the nice part is this again
shockingly easy just exciting.
And so let's go fill up,
just another thing so
we can kind of play around with this.
And effectively it is yet another variant.
This one is dark, colon and
you're gonna effectively you
can do this on the body you can
do this wherever you want you can
assign it basically what it
should do in dark mode, right?
And the great part is these days is that
what is dark mana first of all that's
not gonna help you that's gonna have
everything but your thing in this case.
So we need to make our our thing
support dark mode, which is,
could you go into
the system preferences and
do it but also you can go to the Chrome
developer tools, go to elements, right?
And see this little paintbrush right here.
Right here, click that thing,
and you can switch it back and
forth to prefer dark mode.
And that is all, like, you just use
the variants in this case, right?
And then you can go ahead and
you can switch it in between dark mode and
light mode, right?
On your browser and like,
it's really when dark mode is enabled,
you get dark mode, right?
And so a lot of times that is yeah,
I have my satellite mode
because I'm a person.
But I haven't said to like in the evenings
you know like I have no backlight setting
Whereas like at nighttime is
dark mode daytime is day mode.
And so that will automatically happen but
let's say you wanted like for
instance, they have this toggle here,
what if I wanted to do that?
It's totally cool,
all you really need to do is
go ahead into the configuration and
here we can say,
and not in theme,
one up from there we'll say darkMode.
And I got two options here,
one of them is media,
which is the default mode,
the other one is class, right?
And this would say, like if there
is a cascading class called dark,
then these variants will clock in and
work like that as well.
So now what we can do is,
we can basically,
I don't have access to the body so,
we'll just wrap it in a div
because it's a little playpen.
I only get like the inside to work with so
we'll say div and
if I say class dark It's in dark mode,
right?
So if you wanted to
toggle the class on and
off with some JavaScript you can do that,
let's go back to the the actual
the mediocre one because it's usually
the one that I prefer as well.
And so we'll go in here and
we'll turn this back to prefers dark.
There's a few other things that you
might choose to change in here as well.
And again, this is all how these selectors
and variants can like stack on top of
each other and
give you a lot of power very quickly.
So what we should be able to do is,
for instance, we could say something
along the lines of we have this other one
called selection, and we're gonna say.
I believe that's how it works,
I'm doing that from memory so
that I can make it pink, right?
That's all more pink,
I wasn't nearly enough pink.
There we go, right?
And you could do stuff like, now,
dark:selection:bg-cyan, we're doing cyan,
aren't we?
We all feel in cyan,
we'll do bg-cyan, and we'll do.
Try all that.
And so now depending on what mode I'm in,
I can not only control the selection,
but I can actually have it, like,
you can begin to stack all these things
on top of each other, so on and so forth.
And do some interesting things.
>> You create more modes or that just
essentially creating more themes.
>> I think for
the most businesses using that media that
supports query,
there are a few other ones in there.
If I'm not mistaken, let's go check
it out real quick, it's in like,
this hover focus in other states.
So there are some really interesting ones
that I think are useful as well, and
so for instance, we were using
preferred color scheme, right?
Which I do believe is just
the dark modifier, but
on a much more serious level stuff
like prefers reduced motion, right?
For people with accessibility issues or
high contrast right,
there are other modes you can pull in for
the prefers contrast like these
are things based on how they
have those browsers set up.
They have high contrast mode because
they have a visual impairment or
something along those lines.
You can easily kind of just tweak all
these things in your design system or
in your UI and
have all those things in place as well.
The supports rules when I was looking for,
but the other one that I actually I just
learned about the other day
while I was preparing for
this is even viewport orientation
are they in portrait or landscape, right?
You can like lay stuff out differently
like there is a set of classes and
tailwind for aspect ratio, right?
So you could theoretically change
the aspect ratio based on which way
the device is being held as well,
or change the layout.
If you wanna have something where it's
like you ever use YouTube on a mobile
device where it's like small, but
as soon as you turn it landscape,
it takes up the full screen,
you can do that, right?
In there as well.
The supports rules is
the one I was looking for.
This is an interesting one,
it's like a way to basically detect what
a browser does and does not support.
And it's generating CSS, this is also
something you can do in regular CSS.
It's just a lot easier to say,
like, okay, In that line,
you can basically say,
do they support CSS grid or what have you,
this is probably the MDNR
column I'm mistaken.
As well as you can kind of like do that
progressive enhancement very easily like
in that same context, and I think that's,
once again, incredibly powerful.
So theoretically, like I'd be curious,
here's all the things you can check for
on the supports.
I wonder if you could check that has and
stuff along those lines to see what
font you pick so on and so forth.
You can choose whether or not you
want to do the not operator, right?
Which is like very much like has right
the ability to do like not this and
so I'm suspect you can also do has and
then you can like figure out.
We see or all that stuff we were talking
about before where it's like not
fully supported, you can basically
begin to put stuff together.
And all in the same place which again,
I think is is really really powerful,
I don't see has in there but
there might it might be in there as well.
Cool.
So yeah, there's a lot of ways like stack
up these various different variants.
And I think that, we'll get into
the some of the layout stuff,
which is I think we're tailwind
is a lot of times best known for.
But I the reason I spent a lot of time on
this is I do think that these variants and
we move into the responsive ones.
Are, incredibly there have been so
many things that I thought were harder,
that impossibly hard but
it was gonna be an afternoon.
All right that just weren't and afternoon,
through these features that are basically
baked into the web platform,
they become super easy and super easily
discoverable, using tailwind, awesome.